the Kentucky Beef Council and Kentucky
living magazine proudly present
executive chef dr. Michael rigs for the
lean beef cooking demo good evening
everybody doing good okay you're off to
good starts all I got to do is keep the
pace going all right okay what Alison
referred to is that we are going to do a
dish called beef burgundy on now if
you're in Paris or France you call it
booth and I made a mistake a couple
years in Paris calling a beef burger in
yewland I got some really bad looks from
the waiter so I've worked on that over
the years but beef Bergen young is a
peasant dish his history comes from the
Burgundy region of France and just like
in America it comes from the concept of
one pot cooking so the whole idea of
that as these dishes were created by
cooking what was available at the time
by the people what they had no most to
them one of the things we talked about
in culinary world is what grows together
goes together so if you're in a part of
the world where they have beef and the
Burgundy region of France is also known
for its mushrooms and its cheeses and
its wines as well it would make sense to
use those ingredients to create this
dish so it was a way of taking beef and
cooking it for extended period of time
in burgundy wine I have a sign above my
kitchen that says I like cooking with
wine sometimes I even put it in the food
so we're going to start by sautéing some
bacon it can't go wrong whether you're
in France or whether you're in Bowling
Green Bacon's bacon okay so we're going
to saute that one of the things we're
doing we saute as we heat our pan first
the reason you want to heat the pan
first is you don't want to put food into
a cold skillet you want the skillet
already be hot so we're going to render
the fat off of this which basically
means we're going to cook it a little
bit and then we're going to get it where
we get the grease off of it then what
we're going to do is when that's done
I'll pull that out and I will remove all
the fat the grease and I'm not going to
throw it away don't worry I'm going to
use it okay it goes back into the dish
so basically just warming this up now
the beef I've got is Kentucky proud
because when I Bob meat for our program
i use a butcher on the bypass called the
fatted calf
Ryan does a tremendous job when he does
that and he uses all Kentucky proud
products he tries his best to get only
meat from Kentucky if you can so I
appreciate that kind of working with him
on that so that's where I get in mine so
we're going to pull this out this wasn't
dinner I'd be looking for some breakfast
right now someone put that back in it
now I'm going to save that at the same
time now we're going to take our beef
which is lean beef because we don't want
a lot of fat content we got into fat
with the bacon kind of got that covered
so we're going to take that and we're
going to lightly coat that and flour and
the reason when I cut that flower is
that's going to keep it from sticking to
the pan sauce is going to help sear in
the beef now what happens when we put
this back in and this is where I add the
bacon fat backing this is the good part
is that that's going to start to stick
to the bottom of the pan in a few
minutes once this just gets slightly
Brown I'm not going to cook this all the
way because part of the process of
making a good stew for those you like to
make them is a long slow simmer right
got to put it in a bra so once we Brown
this I'm going to pull it back out and
put a little salt and pepper on it at
that point because I want to flavor it
but I don't want the salt and pepper to
burn out while it's being brown I want
to flavor it when I bring you back out
so we're going to move that around a
little bit now all the good stuff that's
left in the bottom of the pan when
you're done makes really good what the
French call fond it will be in the South
call gravy okay that's the good stuff so
we don't want to cook this long because
it's going to cook following a recipe
the first amount of time it cooks is a
solid hour when it's all submerged in
this red wine that has garlic and tomato
paste and margarine and all that kind of
stuff that makes you wish you would cook
faster but a good stew you have to cook
the meat slow because you don't want to
overcook it you really want to be very
tender you really want that taste so I'm
gonna pull that out and I'm going to
sprinkle that with a little salt and
pepper without salt basically you not
gonna taste anything else the salt gives
everything a kick that's what gets the
start that's why you find salt in all
kinds of recipes
okay so here's the bacon fat we've been
waiting for so we're going to put that
back in there and I'm going to start
adding all the good stuff once you get
everything started this is a really
simple dish okay this is the best part
right here now I'm going to add that
tomato paste and this is just steam
coming off of there still hot weather
it's Justine so that was kind of hot a
little marjoram in there and we're going
to let that cook so we've got tomato
paste that's mixed in with this burgundy
wine that's got bacon and bacon fat
sounds kind of help me then start with
lean beef so we got the least lean beef
then cover okay that what i'm going to
do is I'm going to add baby carrots and
I'm going to add in pearl onions you can
buy them this way okay think about
working on the farm anywhere in the
country that you got root vegetables
everybody plants the garden so these
things are really available on a regular
basis so we're going to let those cook
for a while okay and what we're doing is
that we're putting the root vegetables
in first because they take the longest
to cook once this is all cooking then
basically I set it on the side put the
top in about an hour later I'm going to
come back okay it's going to thicken up
because that flower is now going to mix
in with with the wine and all the other
flavors and that starts to create that
thick sauce because we use flour and
culinary business to create what we call
a roux which is the thickening agent at
this point activist is cooked for an
hour and i'm doing the fast-forward
thing here right case magics ben and i
are y'all been sitting around watching
whatever julia child's cooking okay and
so I'm going to come back and right
before it's done you can smell that then
I add the mushrooms the mushrooms not
going to take about 10 or 15 minutes now
I want to put a lid on this because it's
a stew and I want to trap that heat okay
it smells pretty good right here that
and this is the five minute version
versus the two hour so from beginning to
end it's about an hour and 45 minutes
maybe two hours and the thing about a
good Bergen your own is if you have a
glass of burger
nina and a loaf of hard french bread
you're good to go because you can bite
on the steak and chop up the gravy as
where I grew up in Carolina that's what
you did you stop it up I hope you
enjoyed your booth bergen young
you